## HydroCheck Module

The present module was developed as part of the R&D project 02393-0120/2020 named "Investigation of factors that interfere with the performance of the MRE".

Its main objective is to identify, from statistical and time series indicators, incorrect historical inflow data that may have been provided. Data quality verification is essential to ensure that reliable results are generated by optimization/simulation models such as NEWAVE and SDDP.


### Analyzing results

This module calculates the following metrics for all hydroelectric power stations provided:

***
1. Long-term Mean: Mean of the annual average flow for all the years.

2. CV Annual Avg.: Ratio of the standard deviation of a variable to its mean. For this module, the coefficient of variation (CV) was calculated for the annual average flows. The CV is a dimensionless measure.

  High values for the station's CV of annual average inflows can be an indication of unnatural inflows. Stream flows tend to show small variations through the years, although they are clearly geographically correlated. In addition, stations with lower inflows tend to present higher variation, while larger rivers have a more constant behavior.  

3. KPSS Constant test: Tests the null hypothesis that the inflow time series is stationary around its mean. The lower the value, the more stationary. 
  
  It is assumed in hydrological studies that stream flow series are stationary. SDDP considers the same hypothesis to build future scenarios. Therefore, the KPSS test indicates how accurate is the stationary assumption and also alerts for possibly wrong values in the historical flows.

  Stations with KPSS test result higher than a defined limit will be displayed on the warn table. In this module, the limit considered was 1.2 times the 95th percentile of the set of KPSS test results for each and every one of the stations considered.

4. Trend test: ([Series' second half mean] / [Series first half mean] - 1)*100%

  It is a simplified but powerful dimensionless measure of the trend of the time series, i.e., if flows increased or decreased over time. Positive values mean an increase in the inflows, while negative ones imply that inflows decreased for the station analyzed.

*** 

### Suggestions
The user can deliberately decide which values to analyze to validate the data input. However, suggestions are made as a default configuration in order to make the visualization easier.

For the X-axis variable, the CV Annual Avg. is selected by default since it is expected to show only positive values. Higher values will appear on the right of the graph. These values are considered to be more suspicious as they show higher variation than other stations.  

The Y-axis default variable is the Trend test indicator. The user will intuitively identify increasing and decreasing inflows since increasing inflows are positive and decreasing ones are negative on the graph.  

The Color scale variable selected is the KPSS Constant test. Highly non-stationary time series will then be highlighted in red, alerting that it might cause problems.

The Size scale option is disabled by default. As inflows can vary considerably among stations, selecting the checkbox can cause scale problems, since data points with lower values can be too small in comparison to others. Therefore, it is recommended that the user analyzes the data points without the size scale before enabling it.  

By default, the Size scale variable is the Long-term mean. The user can intuitively identify stations with higher inflows by comparing the size of the data point. Since these stations are more relevant to the system, it is acceptable them to be more highlighted than others.

Refer to the User/Methodology Manual for a more detailed presentation of this module.